Welcome back everyone! How did the first assignment go?
I found it challenging but I think I got it.
I had some trouble with the R code, to be honest.
I thought it was pretty straightforward once I got the hang of it.
That's normal! R takes some getting used to.
Today we're moving into probability theory.
This is the foundation for everything else we'll do.
I'm a bit nervous about this part.
Don't be! We'll start with simple examples.
Let's think about flipping a coin. What's the probability of heads?
Fifty percent?
Exactly! 0.5 or 50%. Now what about rolling a die?
One sixth for each number?
Perfect! You're already thinking like statisticians.
Now let's talk about probability distributions.
The most important one is the normal distribution.
Is that the bell curve we saw last week?
Exactly! The bell curve is the normal distribution.
It's also called the Gaussian distribution.
Let me show you some properties of the normal distribution.
What makes it so special?
Great question! Many natural phenomena follow this pattern.
Height, weight, test scores, measurement errors.
Plus, it has some amazing mathematical properties.
Like what?
Well, about 68% of the data falls within one standard deviation.
And about 95% falls within two standard deviations.
That's the 68-95-99.7 rule, right?
Exactly! You've been doing your reading. Good job!
Now let's work with some real data.
I'll show you how to check if data is normally distributed.
How do we do that?
We can use visual methods like Q-Q plots.
Or statistical tests like the Shapiro-Wilk test.
Which one is better?
It depends on your sample size and what you're looking for.
Visual methods are great for understanding the data.
Statistical tests give you a p-value to make decisions.
Can you show us both?
Absolutely! Let me pull up some data and demonstrate.
This dataset contains heights of 1000 people.
Let's first look at the histogram.
It looks pretty bell-shaped to me.
Good observation! Now let's create a Q-Q plot.
If the points fall on a straight line, it's normal.
They're pretty close to the line, but not perfect.
Exactly! Real data is rarely perfectly normal.
Now let's run the Shapiro-Wilk test.
The p-value is 0.23, which is greater than 0.05.
What does that mean?
It means we fail to reject the null hypothesis.
In other words, we can't say the data is NOT normal.
So it's probably normal?
Yes, we can reasonably assume it's approximately normal.
Now let's talk about your next assignment.
You'll be working with a dataset and testing for normality.
Will we need to use R for this?
Yes, but I'll provide you with the code templates.
And there will be office hours this week if you need help.
That's helpful, thanks.
Any other questions about probability or normal distributions?
I think I understand the basics now.
Me too. The examples really helped.
Great! Next week we'll move into hypothesis testing.
That's where things get really interesting.
Have a great week everyone!
Class dismissed.